<HTML xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en" dir="ltr">
<style type="text/css">
A:before { content:' '; } 
A:after { content:' '; } 
SPAN:before { content:' '; } 
SPAN:after { content:' '; } 
</style>
<BODY class="mediawiki  ltr ns-0 ns-subject page-Team_Newcastle_Meetings_14_April_2010"><DIV id="globalWrapper"><DIV id="top-section"><DIV id="p-logo"><A href="/Main_Page" title="Main Page">&quot;
	    </A></DIV><DIV id="menubar" class="left-menu noprint"><UL><LI class="selected"><A href="/Team:Newcastle/Meetings/14_April_2010">Page               </A></LI><LI class="new"><A href="/wiki/index.php?title=Talk:Team:Newcastle/Meetings/14_April_2010&amp;action=edit&amp;redlink=1">Discussion               </A></LI><LI><A href="/wiki/index.php?title=Team:Newcastle/Meetings/14_April_2010&amp;action=edit">View source               </A></LI><LI><A href="/wiki/index.php?title=Team:Newcastle/Meetings/14_April_2010&amp;action=history">History               </A></LI><LI style="color:#808080;cursor:default">teams</LI></UL></DIV><DIV class="right-menu noprint" id="menubar"><UL><LI id="pt-login"><A href="/wiki/index.php?title=Special:UserLogin&amp;returnto=Team:Newcastle/Meetings/14_April_2010" title="You are encouraged to log in; however, it is not mandatory [o]" accesskey="o">Log in</A></LI></UL></DIV><DIV id="search-controls" class="noprint"><FORM action="/Special:Search" id="searchform"> </FORM></DIV></DIV><DIV id="content"><H1 class="firstHeading">Team:Newcastle/Meetings/14 April 2010</H1><DIV id="bodyContent"><H3 id="siteSub" class="noprint">From 2010.igem.org</H3><DIV id="newcastle-page"><TABLE style="width:100%" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="0"><TBODY><TR><TD><A href="/Team:Newcastle" title="Team:Newcastle">Home</A></TD><TD><A href="/Team:Newcastle/the_team" title="Team:Newcastle/the team">Team</A></TD><TD><A href="/Team:Newcastle/problem" title="Team:Newcastle/problem">Problem</A></TD><TD><A href="/Team:Newcastle/solution" title="Team:Newcastle/solution">Solution</A></TD><TD><A href="/Team:Newcastle/modelling" title="Team:Newcastle/modelling">Modelling</A></TD><TD><A href="/Team:Newcastle/notebook" title="Team:Newcastle/notebook">Lab book</A></TD><TD><A href="/Team:Newcastle/meetings" title="Team:Newcastle/meetings">Meetings</A></TD><TD><A href="/Team:Newcastle/safety" title="Team:Newcastle/safety">Ethics</A></TD><TD><A href="/Team:Newcastle/Medals" title="Team:Newcastle/Medals">Judging</A></TD><TD><A href="/Team:Newcastle/other" title="Team:Newcastle/other">Other</A></TD><TD><A href="/Team:Newcastle/Sponsors" title="Team:Newcastle/Sponsors">Sponsors</A></TD></TR></TBODY></TABLE><DIV style="padding:30px"><TABLE id="toc" class="toc"><TBODY><TR><TD><DIV id="toctitle"><H2>Contents</H2></DIV><UL><LI class="toclevel-1 tocsection-1"><A href="#Informal_meeting_-_14_April_2010"><SPAN class="tocnumber">1</SPAN><SPAN class="toctext">Informal meeting - 14 April 2010</SPAN></A></LI><LI class="toclevel-2 tocsection-2"><A href="#Roll_call_and_apologies"><SPAN class="tocnumber">1.1</SPAN><SPAN class="toctext">Roll call and apologies</SPAN></A></LI><LI class="toclevel-2 tocsection-3"><A href="#Approval_of_agenda_and_minutes"><SPAN class="tocnumber">1.2</SPAN><SPAN class="toctext">Approval of agenda and minutes</SPAN></A></LI><LI class="toclevel-2 tocsection-4"><A href="#Brief_summary_of_previous_meeting"><SPAN class="tocnumber">1.3</SPAN><SPAN class="toctext">Brief summary of previous meeting</SPAN></A></LI><LI class="toclevel-2 tocsection-5"><A href="#Previous_action_points_.287_April.29"><SPAN class="tocnumber">1.4</SPAN><SPAN class="toctext">Previous action points (7 April)</SPAN></A></LI><LI class="toclevel-2 tocsection-6"><A href="#Update_on_research"><SPAN class="tocnumber">1.5</SPAN><SPAN class="toctext">Update on research</SPAN></A></LI><LI class="toclevel-2 tocsection-7"><A href="#Funding"><SPAN class="tocnumber">1.6</SPAN><SPAN class="toctext">Funding</SPAN></A></LI><LI class="toclevel-2 tocsection-8"><A href="#Time_line_discussion"><SPAN class="tocnumber">1.7</SPAN><SPAN class="toctext">Time line discussion</SPAN></A></LI><LI class="toclevel-2 tocsection-9"><A href="#All_up_to_date_apart_from_logo"><SPAN class="tocnumber">1.8</SPAN><SPAN class="toctext">All up to date apart from logo</SPAN></A></LI><LI class="toclevel-2 tocsection-10"><A href="#What_next.3F"><SPAN class="tocnumber">1.9</SPAN><SPAN class="toctext">What next?</SPAN></A></LI><LI class="toclevel-2 tocsection-11"><A href="#Other_business"><SPAN class="tocnumber">1.10</SPAN><SPAN class="toctext">Other business</SPAN></A></LI><LI class="toclevel-2 tocsection-12"><A href="#Items_for_next_agenda"><SPAN class="tocnumber">1.11</SPAN><SPAN class="toctext">Items for next agenda</SPAN></A></LI><LI class="toclevel-2 tocsection-13"><A href="#Next_informal_meeting"><SPAN class="tocnumber">1.12</SPAN><SPAN class="toctext">Next informal meeting</SPAN></A></LI></UL><LI class="toclevel-1 tocsection-14"><A href="#Formal_Meeting_-_14_April_2010"><SPAN class="tocnumber">2</SPAN><SPAN class="toctext">Formal Meeting - 14 April 2010</SPAN></A></LI><LI class="toclevel-2 tocsection-15"><A href="#Roll_call_and_apologies_2"><SPAN class="tocnumber">2.1</SPAN><SPAN class="toctext">Roll call and apologies</SPAN></A></LI><LI class="toclevel-2 tocsection-16"><A href="#Brief_summary_of_previous_formal_meeting"><SPAN class="tocnumber">2.2</SPAN><SPAN class="toctext">Brief summary of previous formal meeting</SPAN></A></LI><LI class="toclevel-2 tocsection-17"><A href="#Matters_arising_.28from_last_meeting.29"><SPAN class="tocnumber">2.3</SPAN><SPAN class="toctext">Matters arising (from last meeting)</SPAN></A></LI><LI class="toclevel-2 tocsection-18"><A href="#Approval_of_previous_minutes"><SPAN class="tocnumber">2.4</SPAN><SPAN class="toctext">Approval of previous minutes</SPAN></A></LI><LI class="toclevel-2 tocsection-19"><A href="#Approval_of_agenda"><SPAN class="tocnumber">2.5</SPAN><SPAN class="toctext">Approval of agenda</SPAN></A></LI><LI class="toclevel-2 tocsection-20"><A href="#Tutorial_-_Sin_operon"><SPAN class="tocnumber">2.6</SPAN><SPAN class="toctext">Tutorial - Sin operon</SPAN></A></LI><LI class="toclevel-2 tocsection-21"><A href="#Research_Feedback"><SPAN class="tocnumber">2.7</SPAN><SPAN class="toctext">Research Feedback</SPAN></A></LI><LI class="toclevel-2 tocsection-22"><A href="#Action_points"><SPAN class="tocnumber">2.8</SPAN><SPAN class="toctext">Action points</SPAN></A></LI><LI class="toclevel-2 tocsection-23"><A href="#Update_of_standing_agenda"><SPAN class="tocnumber">2.9</SPAN><SPAN class="toctext">Update of standing agenda</SPAN></A></LI><LI class="toclevel-2 tocsection-24"><A href="#Other_business_2"><SPAN class="tocnumber">2.10</SPAN><SPAN class="toctext">Other business</SPAN></A></LI><LI class="toclevel-2 tocsection-25"><A href="#Action_points_for_next_agenda"><SPAN class="tocnumber">2.11</SPAN><SPAN class="toctext">Action points for next agenda</SPAN></A></LI><LI class="toclevel-2 tocsection-26"><A href="#Next_meeting"><SPAN class="tocnumber">2.12</SPAN><SPAN class="toctext">Next meeting</SPAN></A></LI></TD></TR></TBODY></TABLE><H2><SPAN class="mw-headline" id="Informal_meeting_-_14_April_2010">Informal meeting - 14 April 2010</SPAN></H2><UL><LI>Room: Walton Library; Start: 11 am
</LI><LI>Chair: Phil, Minutes: Richard, Computer: Alan
</LI><LI><A href="/Team:Newcastle/Agendas/13_April_2010/informal" title="Team:Newcastle/Agendas/13 April 2010/informal">Agenda</A></LI></UL><H4><SPAN class="mw-headline" id="Roll_call_and_apologies">Roll call and apologies</SPAN></H4><UL><LI>Apologies: Steve, Absent: Rachel, Zoltan, Late: Alan,
</LI></UL><H4><SPAN class="mw-headline" id="Approval_of_agenda_and_minutes">Approval of agenda and minutes</SPAN></H4><UL><LI>Both last informal and formal meetings approved
</LI></UL><H4><SPAN class="mw-headline" id="Brief_summary_of_previous_meeting">Brief summary of previous meeting</SPAN></H4><OL><LI> Graphic designer or civil engineer needed from Anil and Jen
</LI><LI> Testing strength of concrete
</LI><LI> Email to Chris Voigt - will draft bullet points in formal meeting after everyone has read the spider silk paper
</LI><LI> Give advance notice of absence at meetings
</LI><LI> Anil and Jen to look at Bug'seye view flowchart.
</LI></OL><H4><SPAN class="mw-headline" id="Previous_action_points_.287_April.29">Previous action points (7 April)</SPAN></H4><UL><LI>Bug’s eye view flowchart
</LI><LI>Da and Harsh confirmed they understood the .ppt
</LI></UL><H4><SPAN class="mw-headline" id="Update_on_research">Update on research</SPAN></H4><OL><LI> Jannetta explained her research project and she is trying to come up with ways that it could be used in iGEM, e.g. searching for parts (biobricks) to make spidersilk proteins. Alan: FTSc needed for bacteria to become strands, knock this gene out. 
</LI><LI> Draft email to Colin and Chris
</LI><LI> Richard outlined content
</LI><LI> Logo/T-shirts 
</LI><LI> New design by Younus
</LI></OL><H4><SPAN class="mw-headline" id="Funding">Funding</SPAN></H4><H4><SPAN class="mw-headline" id="Time_line_discussion">Time line discussion</SPAN></H4><H4><SPAN class="mw-headline" id="All_up_to_date_apart_from_logo">All up to date apart from logo</SPAN></H4><H4><SPAN class="mw-headline" id="What_next.3F">What next?</SPAN></H4><UL><LI>Big picture overview
</LI></UL><H4><SPAN class="mw-headline" id="Other_business">Other business</SPAN></H4><UL><LI>Deena is a Civil Engineer at Newcastle interested in the project. Ask Jen about interview, funding, progress etc.
</LI></UL><H4><SPAN class="mw-headline" id="Items_for_next_agenda">Items for next agenda</SPAN></H4><OL><LI> Harsh to email sponsor letter to iGEM team for approval
</LI><LI> Ask Niel and Jen or previous iGEM team members about rules for about sponsor involvement/ interests in the project
</LI><LI> Harsh mentionned that Anil said that it is easier to transform E.coli, and will transfer genes from E.coli to Bacillus. Need to confirm with Anil and Jen if this is the procedure we will be using.
</LI><LI> Jannetta and Richard need to go through kill switch research so can feed back at formal meeting
</LI><LI> Everyone to ensure he has read the Voigt spidersilk paper before formal meeting so that we can list bullet points for an email
</LI><LI> Formal meeting - put up backgrounds to logo on display for voting
</LI><LI> Younus to email an alternative logo design Jannetta will transfer to Inkscape.
</LI></OL><H4><SPAN class="mw-headline" id="Next_informal_meeting">Next informal meeting</SPAN></H4><UL><LI>All to be arranged at formal meeting
</LI></UL><H2><SPAN class="mw-headline" id="Formal_Meeting_-_14_April_2010">Formal Meeting - 14 April 2010</SPAN></H2><UL><LI>Room: Claremont tower 922; Start: 3 pm
</LI><LI>Chair: Phil, Minutes: Richard, Computer: Alan
</LI><LI><A href="/Team:Newcastle/Agendas/13_April_2010/formal" title="Team:Newcastle/Agendas/13 April 2010/formal">Agenda</A></LI></UL><H4><SPAN class="mw-headline" id="Roll_call_and_apologies_2">Roll call and apologies</SPAN></H4><OL><LI> Present: Phil, Jen, Jem, Jannetta, Zoltan, Younus, Harsh, Da, Richard
</LI><LI> Apologies: Steve, Absent: Rachel, Late: Matt,
</LI></OL><H4><SPAN class="mw-headline" id="Brief_summary_of_previous_formal_meeting">Brief summary of previous formal meeting</SPAN></H4><OL><LI> Research feedback
</LI><LI> 2 weeks for Bug’s eye flow chart to insert our ideas.
</LI><LI> Email to Voigt and Harwood
</LI><LI> Civil engineering advisor, will lead to recruitment of interested students
</LI><LI> Logo - Jannetta doing work on this 
</LI><LI> Tutorials
</LI><LI> Update standing agenda - Steve hasn’t done this
</LI><LI> Bullet points for email to Voigt
</LI></OL><H4><SPAN class="mw-headline" id="Matters_arising_.28from_last_meeting.29">Matters arising (from last meeting)</SPAN></H4><OL><LI> Email Steven reminder
</LI><LI> Advance notice to everybody if not able to be present
</LI><LI> Individual bug's eye view
</LI><LI> Draft invitation email to Colin Harwood
</LI><LI> Read spider silk paper
</LI></OL><H4><SPAN class="mw-headline" id="Approval_of_previous_minutes">Approval of previous minutes</SPAN></H4><UL><LI>Yes with minor modification. Registration for iGEM was completed last week.
</LI></UL><H4><SPAN class="mw-headline" id="Approval_of_agenda">Approval of agenda</SPAN></H4><UL><LI> Approved
</LI></UL><H4><SPAN class="mw-headline" id="Tutorial_-_Sin_operon">Tutorial - Sin operon</SPAN></H4><OL><LI> Evolutionary design of a stochastic switch for synthetic genetic circuits
</LI><LI> Sin operon - Control of sporulation/cell phasing/biofilm/ flaggella formation
</LI><LI> SinI/SinR
</LI><LI> Components of biofilm (SinR tetramer inhibits biofilm formation, activates flaggellum formation)
</LI><LI> SinI reduces rate of tetramer formation by forming a dimer with SinR.
</LI><LI> S08
</LI><LI> Cytoscape - drawing networks
</LI><LI> Modelling Stochastic switch
</LI><LI> Voigt + Kobashyi model
</LI><LI> Run simulation - does it form a biofilm or flagellum? Develop switch that would predict correct 60 % of the time.
</LI><LI> Pull out kinetic parameters from literature.
</LI><LI> Cell designer. Capasi - no graphical interface, but more powerful. Can write Java code and call Capasi from it more specific activities. SBML shorthand. Differential equations to SBML
</LI></OL><H4><SPAN class="mw-headline" id="Research_Feedback">Research Feedback</SPAN></H4><OL><LI> Properties of concrete and surface tension (Zoltan and Steven)
</LI><LI> Microinjection (Zoltan and Steven)
</LI><LI> Zoltan to answer specific questions
</LI><LI>soaking up of water into crack through pores
</LI><LI>how big are the microcracks (presumably greater than size of pores)
</LI><LI>crack distribution
</LI><LI> Genetics Homologous recombination plasmid chromosome (Harsh and Rachel)
</LI><LI>Jen confirmed that will need to to plasmid work in E.coli first because it will not be stable in Bacillus. As long as use correct vector, should work in Bacillus though.
</LI><LI> Nutrients (Harsh and Rachel)
</LI><LI> Sporulation, germination and secretion control (Alan and Da)
</LI><LI> Quorum sensing (Younus and Phil)
</LI><LI>Do we use existing quorum sensing funtionality or engineer in an additional one? Jen: yes could probably ‘piggy-back’ off existing system. Jem: additional system - to pick up on subtilin signal rather than engineering into the Sin system and causing unexpected effects. (Gold award: improving an existing biobrick).
</LI><LI> Kill switch (Richard and Jannetta)
</LI><LI> Linear DNA (Richard)
</LI><LI> Produced model for exonucleases, structures resistant to these and their disruption by 5’ gap produces by DNA replication. To produce model for simple eating away by exonucleases.
</LI><LI> Glue, CaCO3 and spider silk (Zoltan and Jannetta)
</LI><LI> Zoltan and Jannetta will do some more research on the glue.
</LI><LI> Other points
</LI><LI>Can knock out genes so that BS becomes filamentous at the correct point.
</LI><LI>SOS system in BS to make cells fillamentous (homologue of E.coli solA). 
</LI><LI>Jem: recommends that we choose exactly which bonding agent we are using (spidersilk, CaCO3, glue) - Voigt will be able to advise whether can be done in BS or E.coli (rather than Salmonella). Over-expression of urease to precipitate CaCO3. Jem: spidersilk is very difficult cloning!
</LI><LI>We dont want to lyse rods - may need stochastic switch to determine which cells become rods and which are single-celled, lyse and bond the whole together.
</LI><LI>Jen - can only have 6 people in lab at a time.
</LI><LI>Newcastle will host event for all UK iGEM teams. Need to think of an activity.
</LI><LI>Jannetta request: can go into more detail about interpreting results from models. Possibly as a later tutorial
</LI></OL><H4><SPAN class="mw-headline" id="Action_points">Action points</SPAN></H4><OL><LI> Bug's eye view flowchart (Richard)
</LI><LI> Not discussed in detail
</LI><LI> Email to Colin Harwood
</LI><LI> Approved by team, waiting for final approval by Anil
</LI><LI> Logo/T-shirts
</LI><LI> Finalised logo colours
</LI><LI> Tutorials
</LI><LI> Matt would like to see an animation or similar about what exactly our project does. Matt deliver Flash tutorial (in a fortnight 30 mins)
</LI><LI> Tutorials next week - Anil Modelling 2.
</LI><LI> Registration Fee
</LI><LI> Wiki transfer
</LI><LI> Travel plans
</LI><LI> Flights
</LI><LI> Accomodation
</LI><LI> Funding
</LI><LI> Modelling
</LI><LI> What's needed (what’s next?)
</LI><LI> Advisors/ New members
</LI><LI> Time line discussion
</LI><LI> up to date (excluding overdue logo)
</LI></OL><H4><SPAN class="mw-headline" id="Update_of_standing_agenda">Update of standing agenda</SPAN></H4><UL><LI>Steve failed to complete this in time
</LI></UL><H4><SPAN class="mw-headline" id="Other_business_2">Other business</SPAN></H4><H4><SPAN class="mw-headline" id="Action_points_for_next_agenda">Action points for next agenda</SPAN></H4><OL><LI> Do Bug's eye flowchart.
</LI><LI> Anil: to look at Colin Harwood email. Richard to email to Anil for approval.
</LI><LI> All: transfer our individual profiles to wiki
</LI><LI> All: external wiki put up exam dates
</LI><LI> Steve: update standing agenda again
</LI></OL><H4><SPAN class="mw-headline" id="Next_meeting">Next meeting</SPAN></H4><UL><LI>Chair (Da), Minutes (Phil), Computer (Harsh)
</LI><LI>Advance apologies from Richard and Zoltan (Wed)
</LI><LI>No informal meeting. All agreed.
</LI></UL><CENTER><TABLE style="text-align:center"><TBODY><TR><TD>    </TD></TR><TR><TD>        </TD></TR></TBODY></TABLE></CENTER></DIV><DIV class="printfooter">
Retrieved from &quot;<A href="http://2010.igem.org/Team:Newcastle/Meetings/14_April_2010">http://2010.igem.org/Team:Newcastle/Meetings/14_April_2010</A>&quot;</DIV></DIV></DIV><DIV id="footer-box" class="noprint"><DIV id="footer"><UL id="f-list"><LI id="t-recentchanges"><A href="/Special:RecentChanges" title="Recent changes">Recent changes</A></LI><LI id="t-whatlinkshere"><A href="/Special:WhatLinksHere/Team:Newcastle/Meetings/14_April_2010" title="List of all wiki pages that link here [j]" accesskey="j">What links here</A></LI><LI id="t-recentchangeslinked"><A href="/Special:RecentChangesLinked/Team:Newcastle/Meetings/14_April_2010" title="Recent changes in pages linked from this page [k]" accesskey="k">Related changes</A></LI><LI id="t-specialpages"><A href="/Special:SpecialPages" title="List of all special pages [q]" accesskey="q">Special pages</A></LI><LI><A href="/Special:Preferences">My preferences</A></LI></UL></DIV><DIV id="footer"><UL id="f-list"><LI id="t-print"><A href="/wiki/index.php?title=Team:Newcastle/Meetings/14_April_2010&amp;printable=yes" title="Printable version of this page [p]" accesskey="p">Printable version</A></LI><LI id="t-permalink"><A href="/wiki/index.php?title=Team:Newcastle/Meetings/14_April_2010&amp;oldid=177902" title="Permanent link to this revision of the page">Permanent link</A></LI><LI id="privacy"><A href="/2010.igem.org:Privacy_policy" title="2010.igem.org:Privacy policy">Privacy policy</A></LI><LI id="disclaimer"><A href="/2010.igem.org:General_disclaimer" title="2010.igem.org:General disclaimer">Disclaimers</A></LI></UL></DIV></DIV></DIV></DIV></BODY></HTML>